Update existing inline links to footnote citations (#82)
Gorcenski/whentheycamedown: content/english/post/columbus-mn.md

<!--more-->

The statue of the colonizer[^1] responsible for Native genocide[^2] in St. Paul, Minnesota was torn down[^3] by members of the American Indian Movement during the Uprising of 2020.

The statue, formerly in front of the State Capitol building, was easily upended.[^4] This followed failed attempts to remove the statue through more lawful channels, according to demonstrators.[^5]

#### References

[^1]: [Slavery and Colonialism Make Up the True Legacy of Columbus](https://www.nytimes.com/1989/11/04/opinion/l-slavery-and-colonialism-make-up-the-true-legacy-of-columbus-866089.html#:~:text=For%20many%20Americans%20and%20Europeans,destruction%20of%20people%20and%20cultures.)

[^2]: [Wikipedia: Taíno](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta%C3%ADno#Depopulation)

[^3]: [Members of the American Indian Movement are preparing to tear down the statue of Christopher Columbus at the Minnesota State capitol](https://twitter.com/maxnesterak/status/1270839254462201867)

[^4]: [Columbus statue pulled down outside Minnesota State Capitol](https://bringmethenews.com/minnesota-news/columbus-statue-pulled-down-outside-minnesota-state-capitol)

> [^5]: [Protesters gathering by Christopher Columbus statue by Capitol. "For us that's our Hilter. And you leave him there?" man asks State Patrol member, who says he is asking them to follow the process and gives him contacts to talk to. Protester says they already tried that route.](https://twitter.com/jessvanb/status/1270834884429467649?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1270834884429467649&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fbringmethenews.com%2Fminnesota-news%2Fcolumbus-statue-pulled-down-outside-minnesota-state-capitol)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^5]: [Protesters gathering by Christopher Columbus statue by Capitol. "For us that's our Hitler. And you leave him there?" man asks State Patrol member, who says he is asking them to follow the process and gives him contacts to talk to. Protester says they already tried that route.](https://twitter.com/jessvanb/status/1270834884429467649?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1270834884429467649&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fbringmethenews.com%2Fminnesota-news%2Fcolumbus-statue-pulled-down-outside-minnesota-state-capitol)
```

Author: I'm not sure if my eyesight has just taken a hit during quarantine but I think I'm missing what was changed here sweat_smile.

Also, I forgot to ask in my initial comment but should we clean up this link (and maybe others)? A bunch of that extra fluff on the end is just used for ads and user tracking. https://twitter.com/jessvanb/status/1270834884429467649 should still bring up the tweet.

Reviewer: Agreed, and there was a typo of Hitler/Hilter

> [^5]: [Protesters gathering by Christopher Columbus statue by Capitol. "For us that's our Hilter. And you leave him there?" man asks State Patrol member, who says he is asking them to follow the process and gives him contacts to talk to. Protester says they already tried that route.](https://twitter.com/jessvanb/status/1270834884429467649?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1270834884429467649&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fbringmethenews.com%2Fminnesota-news%2Fcolumbus-statue-pulled-down-outside-minnesota-state-capitol)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^5]: [Protesters gathering by Christopher Columbus statue by Capitol. "For us that's our Hitler. And you leave him there?" man asks State Patrol member, who says he is asking them to follow the process and gives him contacts to talk to. Protester says they already tried that route.](https://twitter.com/jessvanb/status/1270834884429467649)
```
